WCPay Platform Phase 1 Docs (#5608)
Automattic/woocommerce-payments: includes/core/README.md

# WooCommerce Payments Core API

> This directory contains core WooCommerce Payments functionality, officially available for both internal use, and use by consumers and extensions.

Reviewer: Much better introduction than the one written before :))

> 🔗 If you are contributing to WooCommerce Payments, please refer to [the core contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Definition

The funtionality within this directory is meant to be expanded and maintained in a stable and reliable way, which will provide a solid base for building on top of and within WooCommerce Payments.

Here is difference between the core and the rest of the plugin:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph Plugin
    CORE[WooCommerce Payments Core]
    WCPAY[Gateway]
    CONSUMER[Consumers]
    end

    EXTENSIONS[Extensions]
    SERVER[(WooCommerce Payments Server)]
    HOOKS[WordPress Actions and Filters]

    WCPAY <--> CORE
    CONSUMER <--> CORE
    EXTENSIONS <---> CORE
    CORE <--> SERVER
    HOOKS <--> CORE
    HOOKS <---> EXTENSIONS
```

> 1. __WooCommerce Payments Core__ is a set of classes (and APIs), which (should) contain core WooCommerce Payments functionality like the connection to the server, main services (like the customer service), and etc.

Reviewer: >(like the customer service)

It would be nice to link this to a piece of code for those who want to understand better, although not necessary.

Author: Done: https://github.com/Automattic/woocommerce-payments/pull/5608/commits/d9ae73e8420f830fbdf38c5968c8a2c8163df6c3 👍

2. The rest of the __gateway__, meaning separate pieces of functionality like the REST API, admin views, etc.
3. __Consumers__ are pieces of code, which are tightly connected to WooCommerce Payments, but are not crutial to its core functionality. Examples include Multi-Currency, WooPay, and other extensions, some of which are built into WooCommerce Payments.
4. __Extensions__ are those use-cases, which are linked to WooCommerce Payments, but not build on top of/within the plugin. Those should use *WordPress actions and filters* to integrate with the gateway, and connect with the plugin through the classes, contained within the plugin core.

## Support and backwards compatibility

The core is developed, and will be maintained with backwards compatibility in mind.

> ⚠️ This means that everything outside of this directory should be considered internal for the plugin, and may be changed without consideration for notice.

Reviewer: I like this 💯

| __Dev__  | `is_dev()` | `dev()`  | Allows test accounts to be created.   |

During initialization, the following logic is used:

1. Dev mode would be entered if:
    - Either [WordPress's environment type](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_get_environment_type/#description) is either `development` or 		`staging`.
    - or `WCPAY_DEV_MODE` is defined and set to boolean true.
2. Test mode is entered if:
    - Either Dev mode is already enabled.
    - or the gateway's test mode setting is on.
3. If the gateway is neither in dev or test mode, live mode is entered.

To alter this behavior, you can use the `wcpay_dev_mode` and `wcpay_test_mode` filters, for example:

```php
add_filter( 'wcpay_dev_mode', '__return_true' );
```

This is done on the `init` action.

> 🎗️ The object is not accessible before the `init` WordPress action.

Once the mode has been initialized, the gateway will work in that mode. The setters (from the table above) may be used to switch the working mode during runtime, but it should be done with caution, as other functionality may already be initialized in the main mode, hence it is recommended to switch back once done.

> __Checking the current mode:__

Reviewer: Some examples and usage of setters should also be mentioned, wdyt?

Author: This is intentional. As mentioned above,

> Once the mode has been initialized, the gateway will work in that mode. The setters (from the table above) may be used to switch the working mode during runtime, but __it should be done with caution__, as other functionality may already be initialized in the main mode, hence it is recommended to switch back once done.

Except for tests, the mode should mostly not be changed once initialized, as it can lead to quirky behavior. The idea of creating the class is exactly to make sure that the filter is only executed once, instead of every time `is_in_dev_mode()` or `is_in_live_mode()` is called. Basically I want to create a small barrier here.

Reviewer: Hmm, interesting thought. Makes sense!

```php
// Check for live mode:
WC_Payments::mode()->is_live();

// Check for test mode:
WC_Payments::mode()->is_test();

// Check for dev mode:
WC_Payments::mode()->is_dev();
```

### Services

> WooCommerce Payments contains a comprehensive set of internal services, but as explained in the beginnig of this document, they are subject to change without notice. Instead, please use the services, available in core:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WooCommerce Payments contains a comprehensive set of internal services, but as explained at the beginning of this document, they are subject to change without notice.

Instead, please use the following services available in core:
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, makes sense. 👍 

Changed in https://github.com/Automattic/woocommerce-payments/pull/5608/commits/3cbbe2102e01d5208f4bf40da00d6061e25a1937

- [🔗 `WC_Payments_Customer_Service_API`](services/customer-service.md)

### Server requests & responses

> Communication with the WooCommerce Payments Server is currently done through a mix of the `WC_Payments_API_Client`, and request classes, and being migrated to fully use the latter.

Reviewer: >`WC_Payments_API_Client`

Do we have an associated class file that can be linked here?

Author: I prefer people not looking there, LOL! 😆 

Joke aside, I'm intentionally trying not to link files in order to avoid broken links in the future. Linking to other markdown files is reliable, as the links are relative to the current doc. Linking to code would require a change in the link if anything changes (switch away from GH, change repo name or owner, change main branch, rename the file, or something else). I'm mostly concerned about renamed files, as soon we'd like to add autoloading, and it will definitely require batch changing of a lot of file names.
